README.md, before:

# timestamp-to-block

Given a timestamp in seconds, it returns the closest ethereum block number that was created right after the timestamp.

## How it works

> The algorithm starts by assuming an average block build time of 18secs.
> Using the given target timestamp and the latest block's timestamp, it estimates how many blocks it has to go back (EB: estimated block) and reach closer to the block we want to discover (WB: wanted block).
> After this calculation we'll have real data from two distant blocks with their respective timestamps so the avg block build time will be adjusted to a more realistic value (it doesnt mean that the past blocks will have the same block build time, but its a better approximation than the previous).
>
> This will be done in a loop where the EB can pass the WB, so for the next cycle the estimation will increase the EB as its now lower than the WB.
> Eventually the EB timestamp will be near to the WB timestamp within the avg block build time value and when that happens it will go back and/or forth one single block till it gets into a situation where the previous/next timestamp is lower/higher than the target timestamp.

## Pre-Requisites

An account in alchemy.com to connect to an Ethereum node.

## Install

```bash
npm install
```

## Run

Create a .env file based on .env.example and replace xyz by real values

```bash
npm run start
```

The API provides one endpoint in "http://localhost:3000/block-stats" where a timestamp needs to be provided in the epoch format.
Example: "http://localhost:3000/block-stats?timestamp=1643726519"

## Lint

```bash
npm run lint
```

Commit message:

feat: adding tests and swagger

README.md, after:

# timestamp-to-block

Given a timestamp in seconds, it returns the closest ethereum block number that was created right after the timestamp.

## How it works

> The algorithm starts by assuming average block build times, depending if the timestamp is closer to block 1 timestamp or latest block timestamp.
>
> So using one of the edge blocks as the reference block (RB), it estimates how many blocks it will have to move from that RB to reach closer to the wanted block (WB), that will define an estimated block (EB).
>
> The algorithm will start a loop where it make getBlock calls to that EB but also to the blocks surrounding it, after and before, as we'll assume an error percentage of moving blocks.
> The block range for this calls will be from "EB - error" to "EB + error" and the polled blocks will have a same interval inside this range between them, the nr calls is fixed to 24.
>
> After having 24 blocks polled it will see if the targetTimestamp is inside any of this ranges, if so it will use the lower block in this range as the next RB and repeat the above in the next cycle of the loop. When targetTimestamp is not inside any range we'll move the RB to the lower/higher block of the main range (depending if targetTimestamp is closer to the higher or lower) and repeat again.
>
> Along this loop cycles the avg build time will also be updated considering the left and right ranges.
> Eventually it will come to a situation where the targetTimestamp is in a such small range that it will manage to call one block after the other and discover what's the WB.

## Pre-Requisites

An account in alchemy.com to connect to an Ethereum node.

## Install

```bash
npm install
```

## Run

Create a .env file based on .env.example and replace xyz by real values

```bash
npm run start
```

You can user swagger UI to use the app in "http://localhost:3000/api-docs/"
The API provides one endpoint in "http://localhost:3000/block-stats" where a timestamp needs to be provided in the epoch format.
Example: "http://localhost:3000/block-stats?timestamp=1643726519"

## Lint

```bash
npm run lint
```
